thank you very much for joining us it's
just past 15 GMT that's 5:00 p.m in Gaza
and a massacre has been carried out in
gaza's largest refugee camp at least 100
people have been killed in Israeli air
strikes on the jabalia refugee camp
gaza's civil defense says the camp has
been completely destroyed a massive
crater is seen in the densely populated
residential block rescue crews and C
Ians are working to pull people out of
the rubble hundreds of injured people
have been rushed to the nearby
Indonesian Hospital doctors are
overstretched and patients are being
treated on the floor now this is the
same hospital that run out of fuel to
run its generators last week and its
surrounding areas have been repeatedly
targeted by Israeli attacks in recent
days well earlier Al jazer spoke to the
director of gaza's Civil Defense Agency
who was at that hospital he describe the
desperate conditions that doctors
treating the injured from jabalia are
facing the beds are not enough the dead
and wounded are on the floor since today
and yesterday there are people who we
cannot guarantee to treat if we don't
have fuel our operations will completely
stop the operations the Intensive Care
units the Kidney Care patients will all
lose their lives in this case the world
has signing the death warrant of these
people Yad Alm is a spokesperson of the
interior minister of Gaza a short while
ago he described the extent of the
damage caused by the attack on the
jabalia refugee
camp one ton of explosives to
destroy block six in jabia refugee camp
completely this District consists of
houses and buildings next to each other
and they are
old and they include and they host
hundreds of citizens the occupation War
PL have
destroyed this District completely with
six USM made bombs thrown to these
places thrown on these people and every
single one in these districts have lost
the lives and have been
wounded Al jaz's anas Al Sharif is at
the site of of the attack in jabalia
refugee camp he describes to us what he
sees there
was a little girl in this place they are
trying their best to reach this little
girl it is a massacre committed by the
occupation against the innocent
people the kids the
children oh my God look at the
destruction most of the victim are kids
children and
women we hundreds hundreds of victims
hundreds of victims we've seen hundreds
of victims
here and the destruction is huge the
destruction is huge and the corpse
cannot be described under any
circumstances we are doing our best to
reach the martys who lost their lives
here in this
spot I cannot describe what's going on
it is a massive
Massacre you cannot count how many
buildings have been destroyed and
leveled in this
place the civil defense units are trying
to reach some people
here they are trying to reach some of
the mic under the
rubble well let's bring in another of
our correspondents in Gaza that's Tark
Abu AUM who's in can Unis in southern
Gaza uh Tark uh just bring us up to
speed with what happened at the jabalia
refugee camp it wasn't just one building
that was hit but several of them talk to
us about who the victims
[Music]
are well there was a neighborhood in
that building in that area that has been
completely destroyed by the Israeli
occupation Air Forces du Balia refugee
camp considered to be one of the most
densely populated refugee camps in the
Gaza Strip where there more than 100
thousands of Palestinian are residing in
adjacent houses even the streets
considered to be absolutely narrow that
nobody can really freely uh can move
within its streets uh this area has been
completely uh neighborhood has been
completely destroyed uh claiming the
Israel attack claimed the the lives of
more than 100 Palestinians complete
residential buildings were flattened as
still till this current moment victims
are still under the rebels waiting for
further Rescue by the Palestinian civil
defense teams the occupation uh forces
dropped uh six uh heavy bombs uh in this
on this neighborhood uh each bomb
contains or consist of uh around 1,000
uh kilogram of explosive materials which
can BR Devastation a mass Devastation to
the region uh this massacre added the
added to the history of the Israeli
massacres and crimes in the Gaza Strip
as they did in Al Arab hospital where
more than 500 Palestinians have been
killed uh the situation there is
dramatic hospitals capabilities are not
yet able to uh to uh to observe and even
to uh contain the current situation uh
on the ground as more victims are
reaching to the hospitals and more
wounded people also are laying on the
ground of the Indonesian Hospital
receiving a prime treating by Medical
Teams the the the scene the sight of the
accident the pictures that we're
watching right now are just
unbelievable to to to to watch and and
to understand what's happened there you
see this huge crater and people still
trying to pull victims from under the
rubble what do you know about you know
the search and rescue that's going on
there right now it's extremely difficult
of course given the circumstances given
that Gaza is being bombed by Israel to
help the victims to pull them from under
the
rebel yes definitely uh the the suring
number of the Israeli strikes on the
territory claiming the lives of
thousands of Palestinians uh till till
now and making the operation of rescue
for civil defense team are really uh
critical as they really lack and have
such a deep shortage of necessary
equipments in order to help them to
evacuate victims also another another
reason that they are facing such great
difficulty in terms of uh rescu to the
uh victims ofand of the rebels is that
the accelerating rates of bombardment
every single caller every single
District in the territory witnessed
massive bombardment in different areas
uh during uh the the same hour so
medical uh I'm sorry uh the the civil
defense team are rushing in order to
evacuate victims and they are trying at
least to evacuate the people who still
alive under the reppel by asking them
are you still alive if there any sound
just tell us in order just only to to
help them to be rescued from the
bombardment till now there are more than
2,000 reports about messing still under
the rles as the medical as the civil
defense team cannot till now evacuate
them right we're hearing of at least 300
people injured uh these pictures that
you're watching right now are exclusive
to Al jazer we obtained exclusive
footage showing the massive destruction
after the attack on the jabalia refugee
camp in Northern Gaza the victims T
you're saying are being taken to the
nearby Indonesian hospital and it's a
pretty chaotic scene there as well
because this is one of the hospital
hospitals that run out of fuel and has
very little supplies to treat these
injured
people uh yes the Indonesian Hospital
considered to be the main Central
Hospital that provides uh treatment for
hundreds of thousands of Palestinian
residing in the northern area of the
Gaza Strip uh as already it has been
flooded with patients and injured people
due to the Israeli previous attacks
since the early beginning of this route
of fighting between Palestinian Fighters
and the Israel occup forces now with
this attack the number has been doubled
and the capacity of the hospital has
reached its limitation they are not no
longer can a can be able to carry out uh
hard and even difficult uh surgery for
different wounded people sometimes uh
different surgeries could be delayed
until uh the second day in order to have
a chance to carry out the operation for
this patient now they are conducting
operations without having Bank Killers
even sometimes due to the to the run out
of fuel they are trying to carry out the
operation by using their smartphones
line the the situation that is really
catastrophic now they are depending on
the alternative generators that are
about also to run out of fuel of this of
the Israeli ongoing clo and prevention
of a fuel injury continues so doctors
conducting operations without
anesthesia injured people being treated
on the ground there at the Indonesian
Hospital on the floor at the Indonesian
hospital because there's simply uh not
you know not enough uh medical supplies
and beds and so want to treat them as
this is happening tar uh Israeli ground
troops have been pushing through the
northern Gaza Strip heading towards Gaza
City and that fighting has been
described as very Fierce talk to us
about the latest on that that ground
incursion what do we know is happening
right
now uh yes the Israeli occupation forces
keeps pushing uh deeper to the into the
territory in order to to gain more
control on land and even to destroy the
military infrastructure of the
Palestinian Fighters as the Israeli
Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu has
announced earlier since the beginning of
this round of fighting uh the the
Israeli troops are trying to get into
their territory from different uh axis
and from different even areas starting
from the north of the Gaza Strip two uh
critical areas that they are trying to
have a kind of further uh incuding into
which considered to be the Eastern area
of B hanol City and even the northwest
of ble which considered to be the
coastal line so they are trying to carry
out stimulous ground invasion in both
aspects of the territory also the the
Israeli ongoing uh troops uh in cruden
continues also uh in the uh zun
neighborhood they are trying even to uh
to um to divide Gaza Strip into separate
areas in order to isolate the north from
of the Gaza Strip from the other areas
in order to gain control over this space
of land also the uh the Israeli ground
maneuvering continues in the uh North in
the Eastern areas of kanun they are
trying to make more uh more uh and to
expand their military operations on the
ground as as they have been encountered
by the Palestinian fight fighters who
open fires and prepared military
Ambitions for for the Israeli
maneuvering troops on the ground okay
tar thank you very much for that update
our correspondent tar Abu AUM with the
latest there from Gaza let's now speak
to nebal farak who's spokesperson for
the Palestinian red cres and Society
she's joining us live from ramala IND
occupied West Bank uh thank you so much
for being with us uh I want to ask you
first about this latest attack by Israel
on Gaza on the largest refugee camp in
the Gaza Strip This is the second single
worst attack by the Israelis we saw the
bombing on alali Hospital of course
earlier this month which left more than
400 dead and here you have 100 people
dead 300 injured what is your
reaction the Palestine Red Cross and
teams as a lead emergency medical
service provider in Gaza Strip are now
working on the ground try to um transfer
the wounded people and the facilities to
the hospital the situation is absolutely
horrific we have been witnessing this uh
increasing number of casualties among
Palestinian civilians in Gaza due to
attacks against um residential buildings
homes streets as well as even places of
worship and hospitals so as you can see
hospit are already overwhelmed and they
barely can deal with this increasing
number of casualties that they are
dealing with every single hour now uh
hospitals are even treating patients and
injured people and wounded people in the
corridors because it is absolutely
overwhelmed and hospitals are working in
full capacity this comes uh as well as
at the same time all hospitals are
literally collapsing due to shortage and
medical supplies as well as medicines
and they are running out of the fuel
which is urgently needed to have
electricity and continue operating yeah
the victims of this attack are being
taken to the Indonesian hospital where
we've seen a chaotic scene as you can
see on those pictures bodies everywhere
outside the hospital inside the hospital
people are being treated on the floor
because there's no space there's no
supplies as you say how are your teams
able to work in these conditions on the
ground
so over 25 days the Palestine red
crescent teams are working around the
clock to deal with this increasing
number of casualties absolutely they are
super exhausted overwhelmed um they even
stressed out due to this continuous work
they are on top of their Duty since the
beginning of the escalation unable even
to go back to their homes and check on
their families um having being able to
witness all of these horrific scenes
each day like the scenes of children and
women who are killed due to Israeli
bombardment it just also add another
level of stress as well as traumatized
because of this ongoing um escalation
that is uh happening since the beginning
of the escalation at the same moment
they are literally putting their lives
in danger in order to go and transfer
the wounded people to the hospitals as
you know we have already lost four
colleagues since the beginning of the
escalation
and on top of that they are still able
to go outside trying their best in order
to evacuate the people and transfer them
uh to the hospitals we call on the
International Community to ensure the
protection of civilians as well as
healthare personnel and healthare
Facilities according to the
international humanitarian law as you
say these teams red crescent and other
teams are trying their best under very
difficult circumstances the victims of
this latest attack on the jabala refugee
camp many of them women and children
they're the ones bearing the brunt of of
this war Women and Children of
Gaza absolutely More than
70% of all victims of thousands of
victims who have been killed since the
beginning of the escalation are elderly
people women and children we uh always
emphasize the importance of the
protection of uh civilians who are
victims this is extremely important in
any um according to the international
humanitarian law so we need the
International Community to intervene
immediately to ensure the protection of
civilians as well as healthare Personnel
what we have seen since the beginning of
the escalation is just an alarming
number of increasing and targeting
civilians wherever they are whether in
their houses homes residential buildings
um even a total neighborhoods have been
raised to the
ground nebal uh the International
Community of course has been you know
there's been calls for a ceasefire and
so on called for a humanitarian Corridor
but this seems to be you know going
nowhere right now um and and it's the
women as you say the children that
continue to suffer the civilians of Gaza
you wonder where we go from here it
seems that every day the situ situation
is only getting worse for the people of
Gaza as we're seeing on these pictures
today with this latest bombing on the
jabala refugee
camp absolutely the situation is getting
worse and worse we're talking about over
2 million civilians now are lacking food
water without food without water without
Med medicine without electricity with no
fuel with almost nothing and they soon
will be even without getting treatment
or medical services this is an urgent
situation we are already witnessing a
catastrophe in Gaza and this has to be
stopped as soon as possible it has to be
stopped immediately a ceasefire is um is
really um an urgent matter now and we
hope that the international leaders
International Community could intervene
to call for a cease fire um to happen
urgently as well as we call an a
Non-Stop safe entry of humanitarian a
into Gaza including a few the situation
is simply catastrophic over 2 million
now are lacking every single basic
humanitarian needs half population of
Gaza Strip are now internally displaced
we're talking about hospitals have been
transfered transport all hospitals now
they are not only a place for wounded
people and injured they are uh
Sheltering thousands of people in a
very bad conditions you're talking about
lacking everything f food water even
hygiene and they are absolutely
encouraging to have uh diseases between
those displaced uh persons who are ging
in the corridors of the hospitals on top
of all of that we still witnessing
extreme shortage of medicine and medical
supply and most importantly fuel many
hospitals are going to shut down soon
because of running out of a fuel which
is importantly needed to H get uh the
electricity without electricity we can't
continue operating and providing our
life saving services and this also
threatens the lives of thousands who are
connected to life support machines as
well as babies and incubators yeah nbal
as you say many hospitals are facing a
shutdown right now but these hospitals
like the Indonesian hospital near the
jabala refugee camp right now are the
only hope for people for the victims of
this latest Israeli bombing on Gaza
thank you so much nbal for speaking to
us nibal farak is a spokesman for the
Palestinian red Cresent Society uh
you're joining us on Al jazer as we're
covering this latest breaking news story
out of the Gaza Strip where more than a
100 people have been killed and 300
injured after an Israeli attack on the
jabala refugee camp in Northern Gaza
this is the largest refugee camp in Gaza
densely populated the interior Ministry
of the Gaza Strip says six bombs were
dropped by the Israeli military on
jabalia refugee camp and these pictures
that you're watching right now are
exclusive pictures that Al jaaz obtained
showing the massive destruction as you
can see after the attack a crater there
uh with people still buried under the
rubble and the search is continuing for
the victims of this attack buried under
the rubble but it's proving extremely
difficult as our correspondent was
saying because it's difficult for rescue
teams to move around Gaza because the
bombings Israeli raids are continuing
and these pictures now are of inside the
uh Indonesian Hospital which is near
jabala refugee camp very nearby this is
where most of the victims of this latest
Israeli bombing on Gaza have been taken
to and it's been absolute chaos in that
hospital doctors are overwhelmed
patients are being treated on the floor
doctors conducting operations without
anesthesia because they've simply run
out of supplies there's no more space no
more supplies and these hospitals are
the last hope for the victims of this
latest bombing among them many women and
children because this refugee camp again
a civilian area targeted by Israel
inside the Gaza Strip